So Chris does not count calories.
That makes perfect sense.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on all kinds of
things. Today we're going to be talking
about Chris Bumstead's nutrition. Now,
those of you who don't know who Chris
Bumstead is, he's uh I believe sixtime,
maybe even seventime Mr. Olympia in the
classic bodybuilding category. And he's
always showed up to the contest in
incredible shape. And I'm going to be
reacting to one of his takes on
nutrition. So, let's do this.
>> I'm not a big believer in [music] the
whole calories in, calories out being
everything. There's a hormonal effect
that you have with putting foods in your
body. there's higher inflammation.
Higher cortisol is eating at certain
times a day, eating shitty foods. It can
affect your sleep when your sleep's off.
Again, higher cortisol. Higher cortisol
means it's harder for your body to burn
fat. So, you're not going to get lean as
fast. And it could have all these other
effects on top of affecting your energy
while you train your ability to recover.
And obviously, more muscle you have, the
more fat you can burn, the more muscle
you want to have, the more shredded you
look. There's so many effects to it. So,
I don't even want to talk about if it
fits your macro shitty food. I don't
recommend at all. Just eat healthy.
>> Okay. So Chris
does not count calories.
That makes perfect sense. He's trying to
make the point that different foods have
different hormonal effects
that has different effects on the body.
Now, this is like one of those sort of
civil wars that's going on in the
fitness community and has been going on
for a long time. There's there's people
like Professor Bart K who really should
be listened to on this topic. I believe
he's the smartest person in the
nutrition space where he points out that
exactly what I said, exactly what Chris
said that it's kind of nonsense. I mean
like for example, your body has no
ability to store protein as body fat.
The only thing if you have an excess of
protein your body elevates your
temperature so you burn it off what a
lot of people will call it but uh you
might call it meat sweats but when you
have too much protein your your body has
to get rid of it in that moment because
you can't store it. So the idea that we
count protein calories the same way we
count fat calories. Now fat can
definitely be stored as fat and carbs
also we know this gets can get stored as
fat. Does counting calories make sense?
Well, when you ask
somebody who's hundreds of pounds
overweight, did cutting their calories
help? Yeah, it certainly did. And
they'll lose weight by doing that. But
as you get in better shape, you'll
notice that that 500 calorie deficit,
it doesn't seem to make much of a
difference. and you'll stop making
progress and you won't be losing any
body fat. Now, people who are
kind of mindless zealots on the calories
in, calories out subject, and there's a
few of them out there, and I won't
mention their names because you'll be a
better person for not following them.
They're just like calories are the only
answer. Uh, and it just it's just not
true. And it's kind of easy to prove
that that's not true. But they do have a
point in that we don't really have a
better system. Like there's no calories
2.0 where it's like a better metric and
we only count fats and carbohydrates and
not protein or something like that. Like
that sounds fantastic, but we just don't
have that system yet. So my position is
that you want to cover your bases from
what you need. like you know you need
one gram per pound of body weight in
protein. If you have supplemental,
most specifically essential amino acids
like foragen, that's what I take. I get
300 gram of protein via foragen every
day. I take six servings of it. So that
means I really don't need to worry about
protein. Like as long as I take that,
now my meals can be small and I make
sure that I get 50 grams of fats so my
hair, my nails, and my cells function.
uh you know my my skin produces oil
which needs to have that for healthy
function and I get some carbohydrates to
replenish muscle glycogen not required
but it does make musculature
look better. It feel the the term
bodybuilders use more full. So, as long
as I get 20 grams of carbohydrates and
50 grams of fats, really the rest of it
is like it doesn't it doesn't really
matter so much and I can stay very low
on calories and still build muscle at
the same time. And contrary to popular
belief, you can build muscle and lose
body fat at the same time. This has been
shown in multiple studies which I will
put up on the screen. I hope that helps.
I hope Chris's words resonate more than
mine. Also, keep in mind, I'm not a
bodybuilder. I don't train bodybuilders.
Don't really know much about
bodybuilding. But it's nice to see that
the guy who's on top of the sport really
has the same approach that I do and the
same approach [music] that I think you
should have. Thanks. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. [music] We've got the
answer for you.